Jesus was the perfect example of kindness and understanding.
The prophet Isaiah wrote about him,
no crust read, will he break,
and no smoldering wick will he extinguish.
He showed love to all who were broken in spirit
and in search of compassion.
Similarly, we aim to show compassion to all
including those in prisons.
Their accounts show why our prison ministry is so needed.
It is a pleasure to share the accomplishments made in this essential work.
As far back as 1918, there were Bible studies being conducted in prison.
In recent times, there is great emphasis on being proactive,
really reaching out, trying to speak to prison officials
so that we can help ones that are in prison,
that want to have a relationship with the creator.
We recognize that those in prison are serving a sentence for a crime committed.
However, Jehovah wants all sorts of people to come to know him.
The service department organizes the work of contact congregations
that oversee and support prison ministers.
A congregation is assigned as the contact congregation
and they obtain the required permits
and organize the preaching work in the prison.
They also select the publishers who will participate in this preaching activity.
We receive letters from ones in prison.
They express their appreciation for ones visiting them
and sharing the good news of the kingdom.
And we see ones responding to it and becoming our brothers and sisters.
Those who have accepted the truth and gotten baptized in prison
have had a powerful influence on others.
They see this individual changing in his actions, his speech and his thinking
and so they're curious.
What is motivating this change?
So often they take an interest and then they too may request Bible studies.
Prison systems are different in each country.
Let's see how our brothers have adapted.
Flexibility is needed.
It's actually required because all these correctional facilities have different requirements.
They don't always allow brothers and sisters to visit in the prison.
So then you have to look for other ways.
Special campaigns are arranged where our prison ministers meet with prison officials
to have specific watchtower articles distributed to the inmates.
In some of our prisons we've been able to make arrangements to show the recordings
of the regional conventions and the assemblies.
And this has had a tremendous effect with many being invited and enjoying those programs.
About 11.5 million people around the world are incarcerated
and need to learn about God's love for them.
Although many brothers and sisters and local congregations help us,
it's not always easy.
The reason is that we have to organize our secular work and our family responsibilities.
And sometimes we have to travel long distances.
We feel built up and comforted because we see that they value all the efforts that we make.
We value those who volunteer to support this arrangement.
If you live in an area where such a facility is located, can you have a share?
If so, depending on the gender of those assigned to such a facility,
could you offer your time and efforts to assist?
We can all pray for the prisoners who respond favorably to the message
and for those who teach them.
Our brothers and sisters work hard to find and help truth seekers in this unique setting.
What have been the results?
Living in such a dangerous and controlled environment is not easy.
There wasn't a day that went by that I didn't regret who I was, what I was, and where I was at.
It was very painful to just look at myself in the mirror.
It's one of the hardest things being in prison, so that you can't afford to show love.
And you can't expect to get it either.
When you're incarcerated, the isolation is just overwhelmingly just indescribable.
You feel like death is even better than living.
I was introduced to the truth at a very dark and critical time in my life at the beginning of my incarceration.
I was introduced to the Bible by a fellow image.
I first came in contact with the truth when I was in the county jail.
It was after coming out of solitary confinement, I was moved to a cell,
and I noticed there were some books on the table, some of those books were Bibles.
I was finally moved to a penitentiary where I could speak to one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And there I got to know the truth.
We would have meetings there in the prison, and we started studying the Bible.
And learning about Jehovah in a group setting like that with the volunteers was absolutely so wonderful.
It became the highlights of my week.
To those brothers who would come in faithfully every week and study the Bible with me, they showed me love.
I had never seen anyone as kind and loving and caring as they were.
It was a source of encouragement to us, any time that he came.
Studying the Bible had an impact on me right from the start.
I felt calmer and more at peace with myself.
When the truth became real to me, the bars disappeared, the guards disappeared, the concrete.
None of those things mattered anymore.
Because to me, I had purpose in life now, and I was happy.
I could really trust God and be a free man, even if I was still in prison.
I went from wanting to just die, to wanting to be there in God's new world.
And then to realize that he had made that way, even for me, was just incredible.
First Timothy 2.4 says that Jehovah wants all sorts of people to come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
So we see the crushed reeds and smoldering wicks of this world as Jehovah and Jesus see them full of potential.
Potential to change, potential to grow, potential to become friends of Jehovah.